Before we keep going too far,
let's run some of these tools so
you could see what I'm talking about.
So, I'll just run it right here
in our workshop materials.
So I'm going to open up the dev tools
on my Mac with command option I,
that'll open up the console.
I can get into the elements inspector.
I happen to have axe DevTools already
installed It's over here on the right.
You can install it through Chrome
extensions, there is a Firefox version and
maybe an Edge version, but
Chrome is the one I tend to use the most.
So some of these upsells I was mentioning,
they have the little lock icon
because you have to pay for them.
But the scan all of my page free setting
is enough to be super helpful and
wallah, we have zero automatic issues.
I put in a little work to make sure that
this was as accessible as it could be, as
you might imagine, but just because this
says zero doesn't mean my job is done.
I mean, we were tabbing through the
sidebar and kind of experientially wasn't,
like it was forcing me through links
that I didn't want to go through.
Axe isn't gonna know about that,
it's gonna just look at if things are
coded right, in ways that it can automate.
So, we want to make sure that things,
are still,
the flows are following best practices and
that we're thinking about the experience.
While we're in here, though,
I could show you Lighthouse.
So Lighthouse is built into Chrome,
I know for some organizations
getting approval on third party
extensions can be a chore [LAUGH] or
even impossible,
if you're really locked down.
So, Lighthouse potentially could
be your saving grace there,
where if you can't get an extension
approved, or maybe it takes time,
Lighthouse is just built into the browser
and it runs the same axe core API.
So I'm gonna uncheck performance,
best practices, SEO, and
progressive web apps just for,
focus purposes.
So it's gonna analyze page load.
It will load up and audit the web page and
report back what's going on.
Checking at a smaller viewport size,
we have some contrast issues
that axe extension did not find,
which is interesting.
And it's actually says error, So
this would be one,
two for me to look into.
It has all the audits that it passed.
I guess sort of my first guess as to
why this would be any different is
that the underlying axe core engines
could be different versions.
It also could be checking at
a different viewport size.
When I ran axe,
it was at the desktop size.
When I ran Lighthouse, it was
checking primarily for a mobile size.
So those are two things right off the bat
that could cause a difference in results.
It also just could be an anomaly
with the way the tool reports.
So sometimes you get different results.
It is helpful to run a variety
of tools because maybe
a different tool will catch an issue.
So, I usually check in multiple things.
Another tool that I mentioned
was accessibility insights.
I have that installed,
it's this really cute little blue
heart with a magnifying glass.
So I can click that and
let me go back to the launch screen
has what's called the fast pass.
That is basically axe core that Microsoft
has also used, so you can run that.
They have this assessment that`s more
of a guided accessibility process, you
could do that, maybe kind of towards the
end of the development cycle of a feature.
That could be a more thorough way to have
it guide you through some accessibility
testing, without having to pay for
a tool that you don't know whether you're
gonna really like that or not,
you could try this guided assessment.
The ad hoc tools are really great.
I could look at things like headings.
This will show me the heading level.
I have two H1s on this page I guess, so
that's something I should probably fix.
I'm a little surprised that that didn't
come up in any of the other tooling.
So, that would be something for me to
look into is why do I have multiple H1s?
Landmarks, I can pull up landmarks and
it will show me all
of these section regions that I
have like a complimentary sidebar,
the main,
the navigation landmark up in the header.
There's a table of contents navigation
landmark that I have labeled.
So that's these two purple landmarks for
navigation.
I made one of them more unique by giving
it an ARIA label of table of contents and
so that gets picked up here
by accessibility insights.
It's pretty handy.
This one's kind of interesting,
the tab stops so I turn that one on and
then if I start tabbing it will show
me a line between where my focus goes.
And interesting that it is, yeah,
you can kind of see like what a nightmare
this sidebar is when you tab through
[LAUGH] using the tab stops tool.
It's not drawing the repeated lines for
some reason,
like we're just seeing the current one.
Usually when I use this tool,
you'll have lines all over the place.
It will mark a line for every single
tab stop which if you're really trying
to work with your design team to change
the way your tab order works for
some reason,
you could use this tab stops tool.
Like if it's jumping back and forth a lot
because for some reason this can be
an effective screenshot tool to
share with your team and say, hey,
this is madness, we're jumping back and
forth across the screen at desktop sizes.
Can we reorder the markup on mobile
somehow so that this is more reasonable?
So it can be a tool to just understand
the tab order overall on a page.
So I'm gonna turn that one off.
Color, I could turn on,
make things more grayscale.
There's all kinds of cool stuff in here.
So, accessibility insights is a really,
really great tool to have.
Cool, okay, so we've kind of dipped our
toes in the water a little bit with some
accessibility tools.
We're gonna look a whole lot more
when we get to our next exercise.
Any questions right now
before we keep going?
>> [INAUDIBLE] I can suggest headings
map extension for heading structure.
>> Cool, let's check it out.
Headings map extension.
Cool yeah,
I'll check this out because the one I use
is a little bit dated,
that looks nice, cool.
I'll leave that open and
add it to our tooling list, thank you.